Introduction: This file contains documentation for samples from the CALLHOME Japanese collection, Linguistic Data Consortium (LDC) catalog numbers LDC96S37 (speech) and LDC96T18 (transcripts) and isbns 1-58563-077-2 and 1-58563-078-0, respectively. CALLHOME Japanese telephone speech was collected and transcribed by LDC primarily in support of the Large Vocabulary Conversational Speech Recognition (LVCSR) project sponsored by the U.S. Department of Defense. It consists of 120 unscripted telephone conversations between native Japanese speakers. All speakers (callers and recipients) were aware that they were being recorded and were not restricted in their choice of conversation topics. Once a caller was recruited to participate in the collection, he/she was given a free choice of whom to call. Most participants called family members or close friends overseas. All calls originated in North America. The transcripts are timestamped by speaker turn for alignment with the speech signal and are provided in standard orthography. Speakers were solicited by LDC through personal contacts and the internet. A total of 200 call originators were enrolled, each of whom placed a telephone call via a toll-free robot operator maintained originally by Rutgers University, and later by LDC. Access to the robot operator was possible via a unique Personal Identification Number (PIN) issued by the recruiting staff at Rutgers or LDC when the caller enrolled in the project. Each caller placed one telephone call and spoke for up to 30 minutes. After a successful call was completed, a human audit was conducted to verify that the proper language was spoken, to check the quality of the recording, and to select and describe the region to be transcribed. The description of the transcribed region provides information about channel quality, number of speakers, speaker gender, and other attributes.

Data: Presented here are three approximate two-minute call samples and their associated transcripts. The audio files in the full corpus are in NIST Sphere format; the format for the audio samples is MS Wav format (.wav). The transcripts are encoded in EUC character encoding. To esnure compatibility, the transcripts are presented as both PDF and raw text.

Content Copyright: Portion © 1996 Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania